===CLIENT: mary-lou-belli===
Standing just under five feet tall, two-time Emmy award-winning Mary Lou Belli has always stood out from the rest of the pack.
Mary Lou has been directing television for over 30 years including "NCIS New Orleans," "True Lies," "Black Lightning," "Bull," "Legacies," "Station 19," "Sweet Magnolias," "Pitch," "Monk," "Famous In Love," "Devious Maids," "The Quad," "Kingdom Business," and "Hart of Dixie" as well as Disney's "The Secret of Sulphur Springs," "Raven's Home," "Ms. Pat," "Wizards of Waverly Place," "Sister, Sister," "Girlfriends," and "The Game."
Belli just received her third Emmy nomination in the category of Outstanding Directing in a Comedy Series for her work on "The Ms. Pat Show" on BET+.
Her short film, "Straight Eye for the Gay Guy" won Best Mini-short at the California Independent Film Fest where she also premiered "I Heard Something," a thriller that went on to play festivals internationally. She has also done ground-breaking work on several web series. Her award-winning short, "America," played its 14th festival on its 4th continent at The Hague and won best micro short.
Mary Lou served two terms as the co-chair of the Women's Steering Committee at the DGA where she has also served on the Western Director's Council. Presently, she is on the Leadership Council PAC and is an alternate to the National Board. She is an Honorary Board member of the Alliance of Women Directors and Advisory Board member of Women in Media. She is also on the Advisory Circle of Film Fatales and is a longtime member of Women In Film. Currently she is one of Governors of the Peer Group Executive Committee of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences.
She has served as judge and/or guest speaker for the CSU Media Arts Festival, a judge for the Miss America Outstanding Teen Pageant, a jury member at the Sapporo Short Festival, The Newport Beach Film Fest, The Regina International Film Festival, and The Voice awards. She was a lecturer at the Chautauqua Institute, and a panelist for Women In Film, the DGA, SAG, and AFTRA and the LA Times Festival of Books. She has been a guest artist at the International Thespian Festival for secondary school theatre where she taught workshops to thousands of teens and high school theatre teachers. Through her teaching, she supports many of the vibrant diversity programs including ABC/Disney, CBS, NBC Launch, SONY, HBO Access, AFI's Directing Workshop for Women, and Warner Bros. Directing Workshop mentoring the next generation of directors.
She is the co-author of four books: "The NEW Sitcom Career Book," "Acting for Young Actors," and "Directors Tell the Story," which she co-wrote with fellow DGA member Bethany Rooney. Her 4th book, "Acting for the Screen" was published by Focal Press in the summer of 2019.
===END===

===CLIENT: rocky-carroll===
One of Hollywood's best-kept secrets, Rocky Carroll is a   critically acclaimed actor who has consistently proven his ability to master diverse roles in film, television, and theatre.
===END===

===CLIENT: dmitry-chaplin===
Dmitry is recognized as one of the most distinguished ballroom dancers and choreographers in United States and around the world.   A star professional on ABC's "Dancing with the Stars" and an Emmy-nominated choreographer for his work on FOX's "So You Think You Can Dance," Dmitry is one of America's favorite dance superstars.
During the 2015 Holiday Season, Dmitry performed with "Dancing with the Stars" cast-mate Anna Trebunskaya in Louis Bravo's "Forever Tango." Last year saw Dmitry guest starring in the season premiere of TNT's "Agent X" and appeared on ABC's "Agent Carter."
Dmitry's ballroom dancing career began at the age of 12 in his hometown of Rostov–on-Don in Russia. He moved to the United States in 1999 and after studying both in America and the United Kingdom, he began representing the United States at many world famous ballroom competitions. Dmitry won many titles, becoming a National Finalist in 2006, and ultimately a semi-finalist and finalist in prestigious international global competitions.
In 2006, Dmitry's dance career took a different course – he won a place on the FOX hit TV show "So You Think You Can Dance" and became one of America's Top 10 dancers.  This led to offers and invitations to choreograph and perform not only in the US but in many other countries, generating even more critical acclaim.
After a series of guest performances on "American Idol," Dmitry was invited as a 'special guest' to dance with Gloria Estefan on the Emmy
–
winning episode
"
Idol Gives Back."  Numerous TV offers followed, leading to special guest appearances on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," "Jimmy Kimmel Live," "Good Morning America," "Live with Regis and Kelly," "Larry King Live," "KTLA," "The View" and many more.
2009 was a milestone year for Dmitry when he choreographed an Argentinean tango on "So You Think You Can Dance," earning him a 'Best Choreography' Emmy-nomination. That same year, Dmitry also finished in a close second place on "Dancing with the Stars" with his partner Mya, receiving a record-breaking number of votes, cementing his status as one of the most popular dancers on the show.
Dmitry headlined the Vegas spectacular "Dancing with the Stars – Live!" and during this time made frequent guest appearances on TV and choreographing on "SYTYCD" and "DWTS" throughout.  He was invited to perform and guest-teach at many prestigious conventions and industrials, which he still enjoys doing today. He was also invited to headline the new live tour of the stage show "Ballroom with a Twist" and makes frequent appearances with them all over the United States.
2013 proved to be the next exciting stage in Dmitry's career. He was not only invited to choreograph an entire episode of the FOX hit show "Bones", but after  seeing him at work the producers offered him the guest-starring role of 'Kendrick Mantorov', the suspect, in the season premiere. It was the highest-rated "Bones" episode of that year.
In 2014, Dmitry guest-starred on the hit ABC Family show "Baby Daddy" where he played the role of 'Vladimir the Ballroom Expert' as well as choreographed the entire episode. Dmitry went on to guest star in ABC's "Manhattan Love Story" and choreographed for MTV's "Faking It." He was also invited back to choreograph for the forthcoming seasons of "SYTYCD" and "DWTS."
Balancing a career that combines acting, dancing, choreographing, teaching, personal appearances on TV, at events and conventions across America, Dmitry is in constant demand all around the world. His high profile TV appearances have made him a highly sought after personality and has become an inspiration and motivator to many young people and future stars who, through his example, are given hope that their dreams can become real.
===END===

===CLIENT: chelsea-field===
Chelsea Field epitomizes versatility as an actor, dancer, wife, and mother.
Best known for her role as Rita Devereaux on "NCIS: New Orleans," alongside real-life husband Scott Bakula, she seamlessly blends art with life.
Raised in Glendale, California, Field's childhood was steeped in athleticism, horseback riding, and dance, which later propelled her into a decade-long career as a dancer in commercials and live shows, including two years as a dancer on "Solid Gold."
Transitioning into acting, she found success in both film and television. Field's journey includes roles ranging from 'Teela' in MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE to 'Virginia Slim' in HARLEY DAVIDSON AND THE MARLBORO MAN and a memorable performance as Bruce Willis' wife in THE LAST BOY SCOUT. She was also seen in FLIPPER, with Paul Hogan and Elijah Wood and the short film, SLEEPING DOGS LIE, starring opposite Ed Asner.
Her television credits include the James A. Michener's "Texas" miniseries, the award-winning HBO telefilm "Indictment: The McMartin Trial," Showtime's "The Birds II: Land's End" and the CBS movie-of-the-week "The Bachelor's Baby."  She also starred on the short-lived CBS series "Angel Falls" and guest-starred in CBS' hit drama "Cold Case" and ABC's "Secrets and Lies."
===END===

===CLIENT: kool-the-gang===
Kool & the Gang, officially launched in 1969. Thanks to iconic songs like Celebration, Cherish, Jungle Boogie, Summer Madness, and Open Sesame, they've earned two Grammy Awards, seven American Music Awards, 25 Top Ten R&B hits, 9 Top Ten Pop hits and 31 gold and platinum albums..
From Nairobi to Newark, Kool & the Gang has performed continuously longer than any R&B group in history and their bulletproof funk and jazzy arrangements have also made them the most sampled R&B band of all time. A reviewer recently called their performance "a 24-karat show" and every year, even after a half-century on the road, yields a non-stop schedule of shows across the globe.
The heavily-in-demand band has continued to tour the world, appearing most recently alongside Kid Rock, Dave Matthews Band, Elton John, The Roots, and a 50-city tour with the legendary rock band, Van Halen.
In 1964, Ronald Bell and his brother, Robert "Kool" Bell, joined Jersey City neighborhood friends Robert "Spike" Mickens, Dennis "Dee Tee" Thomas, Ricky Westfield, George Brown, and Charles Smith to create a unique musical blend of jazz, soul and funk. At first calling themselves the Jazziacs, the band went through various names – The New Dimensions, The Soul Town Band, Kool & the Flames – before settling on their famous moniker.
Over the next several years they solidified their musical chemistry on the rough-and-tumble East Coast music scene supporting acts like Bill Cosby, Ritchie Havens and Richard Pryor. Their self-titled 1969 debut album introduced their signature instrumental sound and fierce horn arrangements and spawned their first Billboard R&B charted single, Kool & the Gang.
In 1969 Kool & the Gang released their self-titled debut album. It was the introduction to a theme, music is the message, that Kool & the Gang stands by today. The instrumental album was an expression of their deep love of music. It was also an introduction to their signature sound and the fierce horn arrangements created by Khalis, Dee Tee, and Spike. Their debut album spawned their first Billboard R&B charted single Kool & the Gang and later Let the Music Take Your Mind.
In 1970, their audacious sophomore set Live at the Sex Machine peaked at #6 on Billboard's R&B chart and yielded three hit singles: Funky Man, Who's Gonna Take the Weight, and I Want to Take You Higher. Next came The Best Of Kool & the Gang
Featuring The Penguin, Kool & the Gang Live at PJ'S, Music Is The Message, and Good Times, all of which helped solidify a sound that wowed not only fans but such contemporaries as James Brown and Nina Simone. The band's stellar reputation grew with each album, but 1973's gold disc Wild & Peaceful took Kool & the Gang to another level (#6 R&B, #33 Pop), spurred by the immortal party anthems Funky Stuff, Hollywood Swinging and the platinum smash Jungle Boogie. Hits like Higher Plane (#1 R&B), the classic Summer Madness (featured on the Grammy-winning movie soundtrack Rocky) and LPs Spirit of the Boogie, Love & Understanding and Open Sesame followed. The latter's title track was featured on the top-selling movie soundtrack of all time, Saturday Night Fever, earning the group their second Grammy.
In 1979, Kool & the Gang unveiled a smooth new sound with Ladies Night. Produced by the legendary Pop/Jazz musician Eumir Deodato, it became their first platinum album. The #1 R&B title track reached #8 at Pop. It was followed by Too Hot (#3 R&B, #5 Pop). The 80's would see them dominate the mainstream, starting with the double platinum- selling album Celebrate (driven by the international monster hit Celebration, which spent six weeks atop the R&B chart and became a #1 Pop single).
Celebration, which played as the American hostages returned from Iran, remains de rigueur at joyous occasions worldwide. The smashes Get Down On It, Take My Heart, Let's Go Dancing, Joanna, Tonight, Misled, the #1 R&B, #2 Pop giant Cherish and the #1 R&B anthem Fresh (these last three from the multi-platinum LP Emergency) solidified the group's international stardom. Kool & the Gang landed global commercial endorsements, supported countless charitable causes and were the only American group to participate in Band Aid's 1984 Do They Know It's Christmas project for famine victims in Africa.
With the explosion of hip-hop in the 90's, Kool & the Gang's incredible catalog of grooves made them DJ favorites. They were second only to R&B icon James Brown as sources of rap music samples.
Today, the group enjoys global fame and recognition and a following that spans generations due in part to the groups widely sampled catalogue. Kool & the Gang's drum beats, bass, guitar and signature horn lines lace the tracks of numerous artists including the Beastie Boys, Jay-Z, Madonna, Janet Jackson, Cypress Hill, and P. Diddy. Kool & the Gang is the most sampled band in hip-hop by far. Their music is also featured on the soundtracks for Rocky, Saturday Night Fever, Pulp Fiction, Wreck-It Ralph and countless others.
In 2014, they were honored with a BET Soul Train Lifetime Achievement Award and in October 2015, in the town they sing about in one of their earliest hits, "Hollywood Swinging," Kool & the Gang was honored to take their place as American musical icons with a star on The Hollywood Walk of Fame.
In 2016, they released a single, "Sexy (Where'd You Get Yours)," which rose to #15 on the Billboard Adult R&B chart. The song signifies a modernization of Kool & the Gang's unmistakable sound, down to the dance floor tailored bass grooves and the perfectly timed horns. It was their first airplay chart hit in a decade.
Kool & the Gang's years of hard work and talent earned them an induction into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in June 2018.
In 2019, Kool & the Gang celebrated their 50th Anniversary. Here are a few ways they celebrated the milestone:
Induction into the New Jersey Hall of Fame.
In a touching tribute, a street they grew up on in Jersey City has been renamed in their honor: "Kool & the Gang Way."
"Celebration" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame
Kool's bass is displayed at the new Smithsonian Institution National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC.
Artifacts from the band's archive have recently gone on display, next to Count Basie, at the newly opened Grammy Museum Experience in Newark, NJ.
On March 24, 2021, Kool & the Gang's timeless hit 'Celebration' was inducted into the Library of Congress National Recording Registry, Class of 2021.
On October 19, 2024, Kool & the Gang was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame for the Class of 2024.
The group continues to delight fans around the globe with their timeless hits and amazing live performances. For information and tour dates:
www.koolandthegang.com
===END===

===CLIENT: barry-shabaka-henley===
Veteran actor Barry Shabaka Henley draws from a rich history of acting in many high-profile films, television shows and theatre productions. He appeared in the hit Oscar-nominated film A Star is Born with Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper, season 6 of ABC's Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and co-starred alongside Eddie Murphy in the biographical comedy Dolemite is His Name, which premiered at the 2019 Toronto Film Festival, to rave reviews.
Shabaka currently stars in the hit Chuck Lorre comedy Bob ♥ Abishola, which is in its 4th season on CBS and airs Monday nights at 8:30pm. Bob ♥ Abishola is a love story about a middle-aged compression sock businessman from Detroit who unexpectedly falls for his cardiac nurse, a Nigerian immigrant, while recovering from a heart attack. Henley plays "Uncle Tunde", who steals every scene he's in with Bob, played by Billy Gardell. Bob ♥ Abishola airs on Mondays on CBS at 8:30pm.
Henley can be seen in director's Cecil Chambers Due Season where he plays Uncle Ken. He is a loving family man who takes on a father figure position after the passing of his brother.
Perhaps the biggest testament to Henley's talent is his professional collaboration with director-producer Michael Mann, who has cast him in multiple projects including his films, Ali, Collateral and Miami Vice as well as the HBO's series Luck starring Dustin Hoffman.
Henley's other film work includes starring in the big budget hits The Terminal, Rush Hour, Patch Adams, How Stella Got Her Groove Back, Bulworth and Carrie. He starred in Jim Jarmusch's film Paterson, which was in Official Competition at the Cannes Film Festival 2016. His numerous television credits include Better Call Saul, NCIS: New Orleans, Grey's Anatomy, Black-ish, Veep and Shameless, with a recurring role on Amazon Prime's Bosch. He also starred on Showtime's Barbershop.
Having gotten his start on the stage, Henley has toured extensively with the theatre production of Jitney and was a featured player in Richard II, Waiting for Godot and As You Like It. He won an NAACP Image Award for his work in Rabbit Foot. Henley was the writer and star of Mingus Remixed, which premiered at the Lorraine Hansberry Theater in San Francisco. Henley has appeared in other productions of Satchmo at the Waldorf at the Court Theater in Chicago, Palm Beach Dramaworks and Le Petit Theatre in New Orleans.
Born in New Orleans, Henley currently lives in Los Angeles with his wife and son.
===END===

===CLIENT: carrie-ann-inaba===
CARRIE ANN INABA
is a dancer,  choreographer, philanthropist and Emmy® Award-nominated talk show host who is also recognized for her 33-season run as a judge on ABC's Emmy Award-winning "Dancing with the Stars."
As a child, Inaba explored dance forms including jazz, ballet and the Hawaiian dance form of hula as well as competed in gymnastics. Carrie Ann played the piano and violin and sang in the choir. At age 18, she was scouted to go to Japan to embark on a recording career and released three singles in Japan hitting the Billboard Top 100 with her first single produced by Kenny Loggins Project. Ultimately, it was her love of dancing that brought her back to the U.S. to study choreography at UC Irvine.
Inaba was at the forefront of bringing hip-hop to mainstream television as one of the original Fly Girls on the series "In Living Color" (1990). The Emmy Award-winning show was one of the first inclusive comedy series produced by Keenan Ivory Wayans; Inaba performed as the only Asian female dancer for three seasons. At the same time, she was running her dance company, Persona Productions, with Brazilian choreographer Alexandre Magno. She also has brought her talent to the big screen where she co-starred as Fook Yu in New Line Cinema's "Austin Powers in Goldmember" and earlier as Felicity Dancer in "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me." She was also featured in "American Virgin" and "Monster Mash," as well as "Boys and Girls," "Flintstones II," "Showgirls" and "Lord of Illusions."
Inaba's love of dance brought her to work as one of the first on-camera choreographers as the wave of reality shows began to take TV by storm. She choreographed and staged numerous hit shows including "American Idol," "America Juniors," "Dance Fever," "TV Land Awards" and "Kids Choice Awards." She worked as a choreographer on season one of "So You Think You Can Dance," but forged further seasons to join ABC's "Dancing with the Stars" as the only female and American judge on the show for most of its 31-season run. Concurrently she went back to school and received her bachelor's degree in World Arts and Cultures, which includes the study of movement, philosophy and cultural anthropology.
In 2008, Inaba and fellow "DWTS" judge Bruno Tonioli had their own competition show on ABC titled "Dance War: Bruno vs. Carrie Ann," which debuted to 17 million viewers. The show was a fun compliment to "DWTS" and showcased both in a different role. She was also host of Game Show Network's "1 VS. 100" and TV Guide's "Red Carpet Live"; pioneered TV Guide's "Fashion Wrap with Carrie Ann"; served as a returning guest host for "Live with Kelly and Ryan" and "The View"; guest starred as Hannah Montana's choreographer, Tina; and was host and presenter of the American Music Awards' "Red Carpet Exclusive." Inaba most recently served as co-host and moderator on the Emmy Award-winning daytime talk show "The Talk," where she was also nominated for an Emmy Award for her work as co-host.
Inaba has been on the board of directors of CAPE and was inducted into the Asian Hall of Fame in 2015 for her work as a trailblazing AAPI member. She served as the national spokesperson for Dreas Dream, a national program that raises funds for dance therapy for pediatric cancer patients. She also advocates for people who have autoimmune disease and helps spread valuable features, interviews and articles about wellness and living with joy to the community via The Carrie Ann Conversations online community and Carrie Ann Conversations, her digital interview series. Both are destinations where she shares her insight to help others to live a healthy and happier life.
Inaba's diverse career and versatility as a performer gives her a unique ability to help all the competitors on "DWTS" shine in their best light, and she loves watching people find their love for dance as well as finding the true beauty of dance and incorporating it into their lives.
===END===

===CLIENT: cheryl-ladd===
Since her big break as one of the beloved "Charlie's Angels," Cheryl Ladd has enjoyed a career that has traversed television, film, Broadway and beyond.
===END===

===CLIENT: dawnn-lewis===
Dr. Dawnn Lewis is a multitalented and award-winning performer, producer, philanthropist, and entrepreneur whose career spans television, film, stage, music, and animation.
She is the President & CEO of Morning Jewel Inc., a multi-platform production company specializing in film, TV, animation, music/publishing, and experiential events, as well as the Founder & CEO of The A New Day Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that provides financial and programmatic support to underserved youth and grassroots community-based organizations.
Dawnn is currently filming the upcoming Netflix series NEMESIS (set for Fall 2025), and was this year nominated for her second NAACP Image Award for Best Voice Actor for her role as Captain Carol Freeman in the hit Paramount+ animated series "Star Trek: Lower Decks"—a role that also earned her the Women's Image Award for Best Female Voice Actor in 2021.
Her recent credits include joining the cast of "Young Rock" (Season 3), voicing leading roles in "Karma's World" on Netflix (created by Chris "Ludacris" Bridges), and "Futurama" (as LaBarbara). She starred in the BET+ holiday film BLACK JACK CHRISTMAS, directed by Victoria Rowell.
A celebrated voice actress, Dawnn has voiced Bernice Hibbert and others on "The Simpsons" since 2014, including Disney crossover shorts LOKI and LISA JOINS THE CLUB! Her voice work also includes "HouseBroken", "Duncanville", SING 2, MINIONS 3, WHERE IN THE WORLD IS CARMEN SAN DIEGO?, "Apple & Onion", "Sophia the First", "Doc McStuffins", "Curious George", and the Academy Award-winning films INSIDE OUT and MONSTERS UNIVERSITY.
On stage, Dawnn originated the role of Zelma Bullock (Tina Turner's mother) in the Broadway hit TINA: THE TINA TURNER MUSICAL (2019–2022), which received 12 Tony nominations.
Her extensive TV and film credits include "This Is Us", "Major Crimes", "iZombie", "Veronica Mars", "The Boys", "911", "A Different World" (for which she also co-wrote the iconic theme song and received 3 BMI TV Music Awards), "Hangin' with Mr. Cooper", DREAMGIRLS, I'M GONNA GIT YOU SUCKA, ANY DAY NOW, THE SECRET LIFE OF THE AMERICAN TEENAGER, and ONE TREE HILL.
Through her label Morning Jewel Music, she released her acclaimed solo album WORTH WAITING FOR, with the title track featured in the Disney film THE POOF POINT, in which she also starred. Her music has appeared in soundtracks for Disney, ABC, NBC, HBO, and WIGS Films. She's recorded or written with a who's who of music legends including Quincy Jones, Grover Washington Jr., Vanessa Williams, Patrice Rushen, Everette Harp, Nancy Wilson, Take 6, and more.
In addition to her artistic work, Dr. Lewis has served on the National Advisory Board of the National Center for Civil & Human Rights, the SAG-AFTRA National Board of Directors, and currently serves as a Trustee for the SAG Pension Plan. She also chairs the SAG-AFTRA Singers Committee, continuing her lifelong advocacy for artists and communities alike.  In recognition of her 40+ years of service to communities across the U.S. and abroad, Dr. Lewis received an Honorary Doctorate in the Humanities in 2019.
Lewis is a Grammy Award and Trumpet Award winner, and ASCAP Award recipient, and was inducted into the Women Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2021.
===END===

===CLIENT: ron-melendez===
Born and raised in Southern California, Ron Melendez knew from a very young age that he wanted to be an actor.  Inspired by his family's weekly trips to the movie theater – his parents would often take him out of school to see the latest releases – Ron began his acting career at 16.
Ron began working in television and commercials while still in high school and through his time studying English Literature at UCLA.  Ron decided to fully commit to his acting career shortly before completing his degree.
The transition quickly proved successful, as Ron began adding credits to his resume, starting with the lead role in CHILDREN OF THE CORN III, a recurring role on Fran Drescher's hit show "The Nanny," and several more film and television jobs.
In 1998, Ron won a lead role on the UPN series "Legacy."  He received positive reviews for the portrayal, including being named one of the annual "12 Stars to Watch" by
TV Guide Magazine
.  After "Legacy," Ron was cast in the title role in the NBC pilot "Merlyn" by Writer/Executive Producer Tom De Santo, who went on to produce the X-MEN and TRANSFORMERS movie franchises.
As has always been the case for Ron, he consistently guest-stars on top rated tv shows. His credits include "Grey's Anatomy", "American Horror Story: Cult", "Haiwaii 5-0", "NCIS: New Orleans", and Criminal Minds."
His last feature film was BITCH SLAP, an in-your-face caper thrill-ride of a modern throwback to the exploitation films of decades past.  He plays "Deputy Fuchs," a sheriff's deputy who may or may not actually be a cop in the film featuring plenty of sexy women and jaw-dropping action.  It was well received at the Cannes Film Festival.
While in between projects, Ron spends his time traveling, reading, playing hockey and soccer, and studying languages.  He studies Spanish and French, and is fluent in Italian, often visiting his family in Lucca, Italy.
===END===

===CLIENT: dustin-nguyen===
Affectionately referred to as "the Clint Eastwood of Vietnam," Dustin is that rare film actor/director that can traverse various genres with ease. His films have achieved box-office success as well as numerous top cinematic awards in Vietnam. The actor/director/producer is the only Vietnamese American that can currently work on both sides of the Atlantic with equal success.
Dustin has recently finished shooting Apple's crime drama series SINKING SPRING from TOP GUN: MAVERICK writer Peter Craig. The eight-episode series is directed, and executive produced by Ridley Scott via his Scott Free Productions.
Nguyen plays Son Pham, who is the definition of street smart, able to keep his clandestine lifestyle discreet and offering myriad advice. He believes that the only things of real value are one's heart, wits, and family. He's also knowledgeable in history and world issues and has an impressive vocabulary.
Waiting for a February 2025 release date, Nguyen stars in THE ACCIDENTAL GETAWAY DRIVER, which had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival. The LA Times wrote, "It's great to see an Asian-centric film — a compelling collection of Asians on the screen, especially Dustin Nguyen's powerful performance. The "21 Jump Street" actor is magnetic in his intensity, smooth in his delivery."
Of his performance, IndieWire wrote, "Nguyen isn't called "the Clint Eastwood of Vietnam" for nothing, and this film's producers, Bond caretakers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, would do well to consider him for a future 007 movie. But his hard surface melts away… until he becomes something far more complex, like a John Ford antihero who's done terrible things but is looking for a path to redemption." Variety said, "The main felon in action is Tây, played by the ever-magnetic Dustin Nguyen, whose charismatic and intricate performance is consistently the film's most interesting aspect."
Inspired by the real event, based off of a G.Q. article, the film tells the story of an older Vietnamese cab driver, lonely and isolated, who picks up three men who have just broken out of prison. Nguyen plays Tây, a Vietnamese born but raised in the U.S., surprisingly observant, volatile, athletic, menace but not without a heart and a certain charm. Tây speaks Vietnamese and can communicate with the older Long Ma, the cabbie. He likes him and respectfully refers to him as Uncle, and opens up to him in a way that cuts through his volatile childlike behavior to reveal the vulnerable scared soul underneath. Director Sing J Lee co-wrote the script, and also just won the jury prize for directing at Sundance 2023.
On the small screen, Dustin starred in and directed Justin Lin's series "Warrior," which will was recently canceled. He played Zing the "Big Bad" of the series. He directed a stand alone episode in Season 2 to such fanfare that he has he has directed two more episodes for Season 3. The show, based on the writings of Bruce Lee, is set in late 1870s San Francisco during the Tong Wars in Chinatown. The show is currently streaming on HBO Max.
Dustin's last film was Universal 1440 Entertainment's 47 Ronin Sequel, where he plays Lord Nikko, the leader of one of the samurai clans. The film is currently streaming on Netflix.
Dustin was the first Asian American actor many had seen on prime-time television without an accent. Fans watched him every week without fail on "21 Jump Street" playing undercover detective, Harry Truman Ioki, with piercings, a long mullet and a leather jacket while riding a motorcycle. He played cool and badass when Asian American men on screen were always portrayed as weak, nerdy and sexually neutered. Not only that, his character played against the stereotypical accountant or computer programmer that most Asian Americans were typecast into. After he had wrapped four seasons of "21 Jump Street" Dustin booked more film and televisions roles. Many of his fans were delighted to see him on "VIP", the campy action-comedy show starring Pamela Anderson, where he once again played against stereotype. In 2014, Dustin collaborated as an actor in a Vietnamese adaptation of Dostoyevsky's A GENTLE CREATURE. This film, GENTLE, earned him a Leonardo da Vinci Horse Award for Best Supporting Actor at the 2015 Milan International Film Festival. In the same year, Dustin starred in Universal Pictures' sequel to THE MAN WITH THE IRON FISTS.
In 2013, he made his directorial debut with a script he wrote which was his personal homage to Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns, called ONCE UPON A TIME IN VIETNAM – the first fantasy-martial-arts-drama in Vietnam. The film was picked up by Lionsgate for North America distribution, as well as being distributed in England, Germany, Italy, France, Australia and South America. The movie explored what society thinks a man and hero should be and he incorporated several Buddhist ideas – so much so that Vietnamese media thought it was a Buddhist movie. He says, "One of the things that really stayed with me in Buddhism is the idea that until we can manage our anger – that fire inside us – our 'house' will burn… Our Biggest battle really is inside us."
In 2011, Dustin was awarded Best Actor at the Vietnamese International Film Festival for his performance as an abusive and bitter single father raising two children in the Mekong Delta in FLOATING LIVES. In 2009, Dustin was awarded the Vietnamese Golden Lotus Award (Vietnam's Highest Film Award) for Best Actor in the motion picture THE LEGEND IS ALIVE, as well as the Golden Kite Award (Vietnam's Cinema Association) for the very same role. He was also awarded the Golden Rooster (China's most prestigious film award) for Favorite International Actor for this very role. Dustin played Long, a mentally challenged man, whose only wish is to bring his recently deceased mother's ashes to America. Along his journey, Long encounters and reluctantly involves himself with a young girl who has been sold to human traffickers.
In 2008, Dustin starred in Justin Lin's film FINISHING THE GAME, which had premiered at the Sundance Film Festival. In 2006, Dustin starred in his first villain role in the Vietnamese blockbuster THE REBEL, a French-Vietnamese 1920's period action-drama. It marked his first return to Vietnam in 32 years.
In 2005 Dustin won the much sought after role in the Australian based critically acclaimed film LITTLE FISH starring opposite Academy Award-winner Cate Blanchett. In the film Dustin plays 'Jonny,' Blanchett's love interest in a story that revolves around her 'Tracy,' an ex-heroin-addict trying to rebuild her life. The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and went on to become the number-one film in Australia. Along the way, it collected 5 Australian Film Institute Awards and 3 Film Critics' Awards. LITTLE FISH then opened in New York to rave reviews. Critics took note of Dustin's performance and transformation into a leading man among the A-list cast. This very performance earned him the 2007 Asian Excellence Award for Best Supporting Actor in a feature film.
Dustin's martial arts expertise was fully showcased in 2000 when he starred in a Levi's Jeans' European "Hero" campaign, which expanded upon his ever-growing international profile. The campaign was uniquely groundbreaking in that it was the first time Levi's had ever used an Asian star in their awarded winning campaigns. For Dustin, it offered the first opportunity to apply his love for the martial arts along with his dramatic training as he collaborated with director Jonathan Glazer (UNDER THE SKIN, SEXY BEAST, BIRTH) on the fight choreography. Nguyen to this day is still fit and in fighting form putting to practice several martial arts – including Muay Thai, Tae Kwon Do, Eskrima and Jeet June Do – in many of his projects.
Though Nguyen constantly credited the Asian American actors before him like Clyde Kusatsu, who worked with and advised him on the set of "Magnum P.I.," it's not lost on him that he is one of the reasons current Asiana American actors are now receiving the visibility they deserve. With this new age of Asian American representation in film and television that Nguyen helped pioneer, the scene is set for his return.
Dustin currently lives in Hawaii with his wife, Bebe Pham, and their four children.
===END===

===CLIENT: jaclyn-smith===
For more than three decades Jaclyn Smith has held the public's interest as an award-winning actress, designer, inspirational cancer survivor, and role model.  She loves her family, her home, gardening, Tchaikovsky, baseball, GONE WITH THE WIND – and her dogs.  She manages her life and legendary career with grace and style.
Jaclyn Smith:  Iconic Actress
A native of Houston, Texas, Jaclyn put on her first pair of dancing shoes at the age of three.  She studied drama at Trinity University and she was soon in productions of "Bye Bye Birdie," "West Side Story," and "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes."  She left Texas to pursue her dream as a dancer.  While in New York, an agent believed her classic beauty made her a natural for television cameras and Jaclyn Smith soon came into American homes as the Breck shampoo girl, which led to relationships with Wella Balsam and Max Factor.  While with Max Factor she developed a new scent, Jaclyn Smith's California.  Her signature scent won best mass-produced fragrance the year it was launched in 1989.
Hollywood beckoned, and before long she was appearing in popular series such as "McCloud," "The Rookies," and "Switch."  In 1976 Jaclyn starred as 'Kelly Garrett' on "Charlie's Angels" and was the only actor to continue with the series for its five-year network run.  Following "Charlie's Angels," Jaclyn earned a Golden Globe nomination for her critically-acclaimed portrayal of the legendary first lady in 'Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy," one of the most highly rated telefilms of all time.  Frequently called the "Queen of the Mini-Series," Jaclyn starred in such well-received mini's as "Rage of Angels," "Rage of Angels: The Story Continues," "George Washington," "The Bourne Identity," and "Family Album."  One of her favorite roles was the title character in "Florence Nightingale."
Over her career, Jaclyn has compiled an impressive filmography of more than 50 films and TV appearances.  In 1989 Jaclyn was honored with a star on the world famous Hollywood Walk of Fame.  More recently, she co-starred in the CBS drama "The District," recurred on "Faith and Hope," and starred in Hallmark's production of "Ordinary Miracles."  Her show-stopping appearance on the 2006 Emmy telecast led Bravo TV's producers to cast Jaclyn as the celebrity host of Bravo's weekly competitive reality series "Shear Genius" for its first two seasons. Currently she is filming the Lifetime Christmas movie "Random Acts of Christmas". Struggling single mom Cindy Larkin wants to score a promotion to full-time on-air journalist at her station, starting with tracking down the mysterious Secret Santa who has been spreading Christmas cheer, not to mention generous gifts, throughout the city. Jaclyn portrays Cindy's mother, Rhonda, a warm, outgoing, young-at-heart woman who is a rock of support to her daughter. Jaclyn has guest starred on 'CSI: Crime Scene Investigation," "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" and starred in Hallmark's "Bridal Wave."
The most important thing in Jaclyn's life is her family, husband Brad, children Gaston and Spencer Margaret, as well as the newest addition, Spencer Margaret's daughter Olivia, keep her centered and serve as her inspiration.  "That's truly where my heart is."
Jaclyn Smith:  The Businesswoman
Jaclyn Smith Collection
www.jaclynsmith.com
In 1985 Jaclyn entered the business world with the introduction of her collection of women's apparel for Kmart stores, a partnership in which she is now celebrating her 30th anniversary. She pioneered the concept of celebrities developing their own brands rather than merely endorsing others, as was the standard before her revolutionary launch.  Since then, more than 100 million women have purchased clothing or accessories bearing the Jaclyn Smith name.  Awareness of the brand by women 35-60 years of age is currently higher than 80%, making her one of the best-recognized people in America.  Industry authority
Woman's Wear Daily
reported that the signature Jaclyn Smith line had the highest consumer awareness of any private label apparel brand in the country.
The
Jaclyn Smith Collection
for Kmart feature classic styles that are characterized by grace and femininity, an on-trend line that is progressive enough to bring fresh new looks season after season while remaining true to her timeless appeal.  She takes pride in providing classic "buy now/wear now" sportswear, real clothes for real women.  Jaclyn also has a line of jewelry, accessories and shoes to complement her head-to-toe clothing line.
"My philosophy is simple: I believe fashion should be affordable" she shares.  "I believe design can be both inspiring and approachable if you focus on the timeless and pay attention to quality and details."
Jaclyn Smith Home Collection
www.jaclynsmith.com
,
www.kmartdesign.com
With this strong recognition and record of success, Jaclyn entered the home furnishings market in 2002.  The
Jaclyn Smith Home
collection is a natural reflection of her deep commitment to family and home.  In September 2008 Jaclyn launched a home collection for Kmart stores including bed, bath, living room, dining room, home décor and outdoor furniture.  Jaclyn is excited to be able to offer her customers shopping for their home, the same quality and value as in her apparel collection.  The items bearing her name reflect many of the inspiring details and exceptional design of furnishings and accessories found in her personal collection.  Her astute eye for detail translates effortlessly to timeless designs, and has introduced two collections:
Jaclyn Smith Today
and
Jaclyn Smith Traditions
.
The
Today
line crosses the modern, global and contemporary elegant sensibilities, geared towards a newer, younger customer that meshes great style with great design.  The
Traditions
line represents the traditional and sensible classic customer, offering great design, quality and value.
"Home is my favorite place in the whole world!" Jaclyn exclaims.  "Creating beautiful spaces is something I've loved to do since I was a young girl, and I want my
Home
collection to empower Kmart customers to bring a sense of warmth, hospitality, and ease in decorating into their most personal spaces."
Jaclyn Smith STYLE Collection
www.jaclynsmith.com
,
www.paulayoung.com
In 2008 Jaclyn partnered with her longtime hairstylist and personal friend, the world-renowned Jose Eber, to design the
STYLE Collection
of wigs and hairpieces for retailer Paula Young.  "STYLE makes great hairstyles easily accessible and affordable to women everywhere, even my own signature color, caramelized brown, which Jose designed for me," Jaclyn shares.  "I would often use wigs and hair enhancement pieces in my movie roles, and today's stars use all kinds of hair additions to create their glamorous images.  Now anyone can!"  The Jaclyn Smith STYLE Collection debuted for Paula Young in September 2008.
Jaclyn Smith: Home Sweet Home
For Jaclyn Smith, home is where the heart is, and her family is at the center of her fully restored Georgian Colonial in Los Angeles, California.  "I've been very fortunate," says the woman who has been named one of the "Most Beautiful People in the World" by
Harper's Bazaar
,
US
,
TV Guide
and
People Magazine
(on two separate occasions).  "My work has always been very exciting and interesting, but to me, my family must come first.  I have no regrets."
It is perhaps the dancer's sense of balance which keeps the many facet of Jaclyn Smith's life in harmony.  Husband Bradley Allen, a pediatric cardiac surgeon, son Gaston Anthony, and daughter Spencer Margaret keep her centered and serve as her constant inspiration.
"That's truly where my heart lies!"
Jaclyn Smith: Beauty
www.jaclynsmithbeauty.com
Jaclyn Smith is widely regarded as one of the world's most beautiful women. Her beauty has remained consistent throughout her career, and her skin appears ageless.
Her synergistic approach to beauty is not limited to the products she uses, but is an integral part of a lifestyle of healthy choices, and an easy to follow routine, that has ensured that her beauty continues unimpaired defying time.
Developed especially for Jaclyn Smith by Heart Surgeon and Medical Researcher Dr. Bradley Allen. The collection features all the products needed to follow the skincare routine Jaclyn has followed for 30 years. The ingredients work in concert to maximize their ability to help reverse the appearance of skin aging. Each product has been carefully formulated using proven ingredients and advanced science – and has an amazing luxurious feel.
With the release of her Face Care Collection, Jaclyn has assembled a collection of crèmes and lotions with clinically proven ingredients – using the latest in skin care science – and she shares her straight forward daily beauty routine, which is uncomplicated and simple to follow. These are the same products Jaclyn uses every day on her own skin, and by offering them directly to women via the internet, Jaclyn is able to keep the price low and provide what she feels is the best value in skincare.
===END===

===CLIENT: otis-williams-the-temptations===
The Temptations
, often referred to as American Music Royalty, are world-renowned superstars of entertainment, revered for their phenomenal catalog of music and prolific career. The group celebrated their 60
th
Anniversary throughout 2022.
To mark this milestone, The Temptations released a brand-new album,
Temptations 60,
with nearly all-original songs in January of 2022 and, toured in the U.S, as well as abroad to the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands, in fall of 2022.
Dr. Otis Williams, the sole surviving, original member of The Temptations, turned 81 on October 30
th
of 2022.
Ranked #1 in Billboard
magazine's most recent list of the "Greatest R&B/Hip-Hop Artists of All Time," The Temptations also appear in the magazine's 125
th
Anniversary list of the "125 Greatest of All Time Artists." In addition,
Rolling Stone
magazine named the group among the "100 Greatest Artists of All Time." In September of 2020, the editors of
Rolling Stone
magazine commented that The Temptations are "Indisputably the greatest black vocal group of the Modern Era…," and listed the group's
Anthology
album among the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time." The
Anthology
album has appeared in all three of
Rolling Stone's
500 Greatest Albums' lists.
The Temptations' heritage, influence and contributions to, not only American culture and African American communities but also to the global music landscape are monumental. The influence that The Temptations had on mainstream and global artists, such as The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan and others, is undeniable.
The group's popularity is ever-increasing and they are one of the most iconic, bestselling brands in the entertainment world today. While the group has evolved over the years, Dr. Otis Williams has continued to lead the group and carry the torch forward for the next generation of Temptations' fans.
The Temptations have been the subject of a smash hit Broadway musical,
Ain't Too Proud: The Life and Times of The Temptations
, which opened on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre on March 21
st
, 2019. The electrifying Broadway musical received 12 Tony nominations and won the Tony Award for Best Choreography at the 73
rd
Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall in New York City on June 10, 2019.
It captivated thousands of theatergoers during sold-out performances on Broadway.  At year-end of 2019,
Ain't Too Proud
had broken the house record at the Imperial Theatre for a second time. The week ending December 29
th
the musical had the highest grossing week in the history of the Imperial Theatre. In June of 2019, the show's producers announced plans for a national touring production of the musical to travel to more than 50 cities, in 100+ weeks.
The national touring production of the smash hit Broadway musical kicked off their tour in December 2021 at The Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C.  The touring production
is scheduled to open in theaters in more than 50 cities across the U.S. during the next several years.
Ain't Too Proud
is also scheduled to open in the UK, in the West End of London, at the Prince Edward Theatre on March 31, 2023.
Also in 2019, the original cast album for the smash hit Broadway musical,
Ain't Too Proud: The Life and Times of The Temptations
was nominated for a Grammy® Award in the "Best Musical Theater Album" category.
In addition to the musical, The Temptations' journey, as seen through the lens of Otis Williams, a founding member of the group, was also a blockbuster television mini-series which aired in 1998.  The mini-series,
Temptations
, was produced by long-time Temptations' manager Shelly Berger, Dr. Otis Williams, and Suzanne de Passe, head of de Passe Entertainment, and was reportedly viewed by 45 million fans when it originally aired. The television mini-series went on to win an Emmy for Outstanding Direction for a Mini-series or Movie, as well as the 1999 NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Television Movie or Mini-series. The mini-series is still on air or streaming every day somewhere in the world.
In 2018, Universal Music Enterprises ("UMe") released worldwide The Temptations' studio album,
All the Time
, which was the group's first new album in eight years. It was released in CD, vinyl LP, limited edition white vinyl LP and digital formats.  It featured three new, original Temptations' songs, in addition to inspired renditions of songs from Maxwell, The Weeknd, Sam Smith, Bruno Mars and others.
At the time of the album's release,
Dr. Otis Williams, founding member of The Temptations said, "…Looking back, I never could have imagined where my life has taken me.  I'm proud of what The Temptations have achieved, and I'm grateful for every opportunity we've been so fortunate to receive. The music carries me. Together, we lift our voices with love and wonder…"
The group's 60-year history spans the 20
th
and 21
st
centuries, and their music transcends generations. The Temptations' story is a road map through American history. What began in Detroit, when a remarkable combination of soulful voices un
===END===

===CLIENT: louis-van-amstel===
Three-time World Dance Champion and Emmy-nominated choreographer Louis van Amstel is best known for his ten stunning turns on the smash hit TV show "Dancing with the Stars." He's so happy to be back on the show after 7 years, partnered with iconic actress Cheryl Ladd.
Louis has enjoyed amazing seasons on the show with partners such as Paula Deen, Trista Sutter, Lisa Rinna, Monique Coleman, and Priscilla Presley. In Season 9, Louis was partnered with Kelly Osbourne, whom he helped transform from underdog to fan favorite and lost 35 lbs along the way. In the following seasons Louis partnered Niecy Nash, Margaret Cho, Kendra Wilkinson, and Sabrina Bryan in the All-star season.
In the Fall of 2019, Louis joined Holland's "Dancing with the Stars" in the judge's chair.
Louis served as Choreographer, creative director, and performer, for the immensely popular "Dancing with the Stars" live tours in 2006 and 2007. His creative vision helped to make the tours one of the most successful live shows.
In 2008, Louis was sworn-in as an American citizen, which marks a very proud milestone for the Dutch-born dancer.
Along with his husband, Joshua, Louis adopted his first son, Daniel, in 2019. In 2020 the couple adopted their second son Jonathan. Louis believes it is important to adopt children from the foster care system in the United States. Both of his sons were adopted at age 10 from Colorado and Nevada.
In 2009, he served as a choreographer on FOX's dance hit show "So You Think You Can Dance," marking the first time any "DWTS" talent had crossed over to work on both shows at the same time. Three of the seven dances he choreographed made it to the finale and were mentioned as the judges' favorite picks at the Kodak Theater in Hollywood. With much pride he continues choreographing on the groundbreaking show currently on its 13th season.
For the past twelve years Louis has traveled the world developing his revolutionary dance fitness program LaBlast. This program is based on all the dances seen on 'Dancing with the Stars' and has grown to become a worldwide phenomenon and currently has over 3500 instructors (lablastfitness.com).
"LaBlast" is completely partner free, uses music from ALL artists, genres, eras, and is a "workout in disguise" LaBlast has been featured on "Good Morning America," "The Today Show," "Dr. Oz,", "The Talk," where Louis demonstrates how LaBlast burns away the calories, promotes fun fitness, and helps people create a healthier lifestyle. "This program is for people who think they can't dance or have two left feet, as it offers multiple levels catering to everyone, from the absolute beginner to the already experienced dancer!" van Amstel says. He has established himself as the world's foremost expert on fitness through dance!
Most recently, Louis has choreographed and appeared on NBC/Peacock's "Days of Our Lives" / "Salem." In the off seasons from "DWTS", Louis has also choreographed and appeared on ABC's "Agent Carter," choreographed for Fox's "Lie to Me" and he trained the contestants on the ABC reality show, "The Bachelor Pad." His other choreography credits include sitcoms such as "Hanna Montana" and "Happily Divorced". Additionally, Louis has had guest-star cameos on "The Suite Life of Zach and Cody", "All My Children", "Million Dollar Match Maker", and Lifetime's "Drop Dead Diva!," where he was reunited with his former "DWTS" partner Margaret Cho.
A well-known and respected figure in the dance world, Louis is one of the most experienced professionals on "Dancing with the Stars," having coached many of the pro dancers before the show started, helping further their careers. Louis was also helpful in getting most of them involved with "DWTS," and he had the pleasure of competing with fellow pro dancer Karina Smirnoff, and they became finalists in every major Championship Worldwide in 1999 and in the United States Latin Champions in 2000.
At the age of ten Louis first began his dance career training in a theatre school where he gained a background in ballet, tap and jazz while simultaneously engaging in rigorous Ballroom dance competitions. As a young adult he attended the University of the Arts in Amsterdam to further strengthen his skills. Training under lifelong dance coach and mentor Dr. Ruud Vermeij, Louis is a student of Laban choreology and is well-versed in human movement behavior.
During his competitive ballroom dance career, Louis has amassed a staggering number of accolades, including: 7-time Dutch National Amateur Champion, European Amateur Latin Champion, 2-time World Amateur Latin Champion, Grand Slam Amateur Latin Champion, World Professional Showdance Champion and Professional World Latin Finalist.
Three years after immigrating to the US in 1999, Louis created his own Broadway production of "Latin Fusion," a feature production of Ballroom dancing at City Center in New York City. The success of "Latin Fusion" resulted in a second creative effort, "Latin Revolution," in Salt Lake City, 2004. Many of the past and current Pro dancers of "DWTS" where part of these productions.
One of the world's foremost experts in dance fitness, Louis is incredibly passionate about his craft, and firmly believes that dance is not only a beautiful art form but can also offer an incredible way to get people in the best shape of their lives. Whatever it takes, Louis will continue to dance his way into all of our hearts, as he believes that nothing will stop him, and nothing can stop you!
===END===

===CLIENT: otis-c-williams===
OTIS CLAYBORN WILLIAMS
, founding member of the world-renowned, Grammy Award-winning group, The Temptations, is a music legend. From award-winning singer, songwriter to critically acclaimed author, from television producer, and Broadway executive producer to executive producer of the group's albums, Williams defied all odds, having gone from the dirt roads of rural Texas to the highest heights of Detroit, Motown, and beyond.
One of the world's most significant and prolific musical institutions of all time, The Temptations are entertainment giants revered for their enduring catalog of music masterpieces. As the solesurviving member of the original Temptations, Williams, now 83, is uniquely one of Detroit's and America's national treasures.
Williams has been and still is the chief architect of The Temptations' evolution throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. Celebrating 60+ years at the forefront of The Temptations, and still performing around the world today, he is a global superstar.
Dr. Otis Williams received an honorary degree, Doctorate of Humane Letters, from Stillman College, a historically Black college and university in Tuscaloosa, Alabama in 2006.
Williams' personal journey has been documented in his critically acclaimed 1988 autobiography, Temptations, which became the source for both the Emmy® Award-winning television mini-series, Temptations, released in 1998, and most recently the smash hit Broadway musical, Ain't Too Proud: The Life and Times of The Temptations, which won the 2019 Tony® Award for Best Choreography. Ain't Too Proud broke house records while on Broadway.
The unique contributions Otis Williams and The Temptations have made to the legacies of Detroit, Motown, The Motown Museum, American Culture and Black communities everywhere, as well as to the global music landscape are undeniable.
Williams said, "In everyone's life, there are certain key people and events—linchpin friends and incidents without which there'd be an entirely different story to tell. My life has been blessed with many such people and events, and not a small amount of good fortune. But at the heart of my story, of The Temptations' story, is the place where it all started, the place I will always go back to: Detroit."
With great affection, Williams often says today, "Detroit was always known for the Big Three: Ford, Chrysler, and GM. However, once Motown, one of the greatest record labels of all time, arrived in the city, it became known for the Big Four: Ford, Chrysler, GM, and Motown." Williams added, "Looking back, I never could have imagined where my life has taken me. I'm proud of what The Temptations have achieved, and I'm grateful for every opportunity we'vebeen so fortunate to receive. The music carries me…"
Born October 30, 1941, in Texarkana, Texas, Williams' worldview was formed in the homes of his paternal grandmother, Della Gooden and his maternal grandparents Lucinda Eliga and Frank Fisher. The Black Baptist church was at the center of his childhood. His grandparents lived in a segregated community, and he attended an all-black school and an all-black church. Going to church and singing in the gospel choir on Sundays, were beloved rituals during his
formative years. He was deeply loved and spoiled as any child brought up by two strict, Godfearing grandmothers could be.
Like many Black families who migrated north in the 50's, so too did Williams' mother, Hazel Louise Williams. She found work and a new home among the thriving, working-class black community in Detroit, Michigan. When Otis was eleven years old, he left Texas to join his mother and stepfather, Edgar Little, who worked on the assembly line at Ford Motor Company in Detroit. After arriving in the famous Motor City, it wasn't long before young Williams set his sights on forming a singing group. Influenced by gospel singers such as the Dixie Hummingbirds, the Swan Silvertones, and others during his early childhood with his grandmothers, Otis did his share of singing in the halls of Hutchins Junior High in Detroit. As a teenager, he was often heard harmonizing with classmate Lamont Dozier of Holland-Dozier-Holland fame in the hallways between classes. Young Williams' interest in music blossomed when he heard early R&B greats such as Ruth Brown, B.B. King, Nat "King" Cole, and Billy Eckstine on the black radio stations in Detroit. Unlike life in rural Texas, Detroit was a bustling city, filled with bright lights, cars, music, and a strong vibrant Black community.
Once in high school, Williams started attending rock- 'n'-roll shows at the famous Fox Theater featuring acts like Chuck Berry, Frankie Lymon and the Teenagers and the Cadillacs. Mesmerized by the performers and the roar of live audiences, Otis decided to put his own group together. He pulled together other teenagers from his neighborhood, including Melvin Franklin who attended Northwestern High, the same high school as Otis. With Rock- 'n'-Roll mania sweeping his generation, Otis formed his first group called Otis Williams and The Siberians, then a group called the El Domingos, and eventually the group, Otis Williams and the Distants. The group consisted of: Otis Williams, Al Bryant, James Crawford, Melvin Franklin, and Richard Street. They released "Come On" in 1959, a song written by Williams. It was while Otis and the group were performing "Come On," at St. Stephen's Community Center in Detroit in 1960, that they caught the attention of Berry Gordy. When Otis came off the stage and headed to the bathroom, he encountered Berry Gordy. Impressed with the performance, Berry told Otis if they ever decide to make a change, they should come see him because he was starting his own label.
As fate would have it, after an initial call to Mr. Gordy, Otis got an audition at Motown with writer and producer William "Mickey" Stevenson in 1961. By then William's group had picked up new members, Eddie Kendricks and Paul Williams and called themselves The Elgins. Impressed with their sound, Stevenson called in Gordy who after hearing the group offered them their first contract on the spot. According to Williams, a few days before signing, they became known as The Temptations. The lineup of the original Temptations included: Otis Williams, Melvin Franklin, Paul Williams, Eddie Kendricks, and Elbridge "Al" Bryant. From the start, Williams said he served as management liaison, Melvin as treasurer, Paul planned the shows and the choreography, Al arranged the transportation and Eddie handled the wardrobe.
In the beginning, besides doing their regular shows, The Temptations did a lot of background singing for other Motown artists. They made their debut at the famed Apollo Theater in Harlem in the early 60s as background singers for Mary Wells, Motown's leading star at that time. Hoping for a big hit of their own, the group started to tour outside of Michigan. They did shows in cities such as Cleveland, Ohio with acts like Gladys Knight and the Pips, the Halos, and others. Their song, "Dream Come True," made a minor splash on the R&B chart at #22. In early 1963, The Temptations cut their sixth single, "I Want a Love I Can See" which was their first time working with the two writer-producers who would create the bulk of their greatest hits through the 1960s and 70s: Smokey Robinson and Norman Whitfield.
By December 1963, Al Bryant had left the group, and in 1964, Otis Williams invited David Ruffin, a long-time friend from his neighborhood in Detroit, to join the group. They lived one block from each other, Williams on Philadelphia Street and Ruffin on Euclid Avenue. The group became known as the legendary "Classic Five" –Otis Williams, Melvin Franklin, Eddie Kendricks, Paul Williams, and David Ruffin. The Classic Five broke out with "The Way You Do the Things You Do" which peaked at #11 on the national pop chart in 1964. The history of the legendary "Classic Five" is woven into the fabric of Detroit. Their rise to international fame is deeply rooted in Detroit's and Motown's own rich histories and cultures.
What began in Detroit at Motown, when this remarkable combination of soulful voices united, was the genesis of an epic journey that introduced multiple superstars to the world and produced some of the greatest music in the modern era. The Temptations' versatile voices, synchronized dance steps, handsome style, and dazzling dress, set a new standard that became world famous and is still the group's distinguished trademark today.
Taken under the wing of Berry Gordy, his executive team, writers and producers, Otis Williams, and his fellow Temptations, like the other famous Motown recording artists were required to participate in Motown's Artist Development. Amid segregation, civil rights' struggles, Vietnam protests, the women's rights movement and all the upheaval of the 60s, The Temptations began touring the country by bus with Motown's famous Motortown Revue. Generally, a bus carried five or six acts plus the band and Motown chaperones. By this time, the Motown artist roster was extraordinary, with artists such as The Temptations, The Supremes, Marvin Gaye, Smokey Robinson & The Miracles, Mary Wells, Gladys Knight & The Pips, and others. They all developed a camaraderie, and on and off the road used their voices to bring people together.
Christmas Day in 1964, The Temptations were doing a Motortown Revue show at the Brooklyn Fox Theater with the Supremes, the Marvellettes, Marvin Gaye, the Miracles, and Stevie Wonder. The next day Motown released "My Girl." It charted at #76 three weeks later. It was 1965, when "My Girl" became a #1 Pop chart hit, that was a game changer for Williams and The Temptations. The Temptations were performing at the Apollo Theater in Harlem when they received a telegram from Berry Gordy, The Supremes, The Beatles, and many others, congratulating them on their #1 success. The Temptations' fan base went global and like The Beatles, they became a household name worldwide. This was a mic drop moment in Williams' iconic career. It was The Temptations' first #1 million copy chart hit. "My Girl" would become the group's magnum opus, and it was inducted into The Grammy Hall of Fame in 1998, and in 2018 it was entered into the National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress. "My Girl" has now become a standard. In fall of 2023, "My Girl" was ranked #3 among Billboard's 500 Best Pop Songs of all time.
With "My Girl" having opened the door to global attention, the group continued to produce a string of hits that topped the charts in the decades to follow. The crowds and venues became bigger and more diverse. This was the dawn of Motown's golden era, and The Temptations were at the center of it all.
When their longtime manager, Shelly Berger began managing both The Temptations and The Supremes in 1966, The Temptations made countless appearances on TV programs including The Ed Sullivan Show, The Hollywood Palace, The Dean Martin Show, Shindig, Hullabaloo, The Tonight Show, Where the Action is and The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. The group Also became a smash hit at the Copacabana nightclub in New York City, one of many major appearances negotiated by Mr. Berger that symbolized acceptance by the entertainment world at large. The Temptations were now show business titans.
By 1967, the Classic Five released their first live album, Temptations Live, which is also the only live album ever recorded featuring David Ruffin. It was recorded at the famous Rooster Tail Club in Detroit on October 3, 1966. The album reached #10 on the Pop chart and was on Billboard's Top 200 list for almost an entire year.
After David Ruffin's departure, Dennis Edwards joined the group in 1968. In 1968, and 1969, respectively, Diana Ross and the Supremes and The Temptations starred in primetime network television specials "TCB (Taking Care of Business)" and "G.I.T. (Getting It Together) on Broadway." Never had two contemporary African American groups headlined their own #1 nationally rated television specials, all produced by Motown, an African American owned company. The "TCB" special was named the #1 rated variety show in 1968 and received an Emmy® nomination. The original cast soundtrack album, TCB, reached #1 on Billboard's Top 200 Albums chart. At the time, this was an unparalleled accomplishment for African American entertainers. The Temptations helped change the face of primetime television and fueled the growth in the performing arts and entertainment world for African Americans artists forever. Considered trailblazers, The Temptations opened doors for many artists who followed in their footsteps, reaching mainstream audiences here and abroad.
Otis Williams' dream of performing in front of live audiences, was realized when he was but a teenager. However, he never imagined that The Temptations' songs and performances would take him around the world performing for Presidents, and Heads of State, and fans everywhere, and that their songs would continue to be passed between generations, more than 60 years later. The Temptations' music, then and now, continues to raise the spirit of the country and uplift a nation searching for common bonds and glimmers of hope and humanity.
In January 2025, The Temptations are kicking off a national concert tour. Otis Williams and The Temptations are still lighting up concert stages around the world. The Temptations' presence in the world today has never been more vivid, and their popularity is ever-increasing. Williams' remarkable achievements, and the longevity of his distinguished musical career, make him unlike any other musical artist in American culture in the modern era.
temptationsofficial.com
===END===

===CLIENT: mary-wilson===
January 21, 1961, The Supremes signed with Motown.
===END===
